



Path Computation Element                                        A. Stone
Internet-Draft                                                     Nokia
Intended status: Standards Track                                   C. Li
Expires: 9 February 2025                                          Huawei
                                                                S. Sidor
                                                                   Cisco
                                                           8 August 2024


           PCEP extensions for updating Open Message content
                   draft-stone-pce-update-open-latest

Abstract

   This document describes extensions to Path Computation Element
   Protocol (PCEP) to permit a PCEP Speaker to update information
   previously exchanged during PCEP Open procedures.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Path Computation
   Element Working Group mailing list (pce@ietf.org), which is archived
   at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/pce/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/astone282/draft-stone-pce-update-open.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 9 February 2025.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Operational considerations
   4.  PcNtf Message procedures
   5.  Security Considerations
   6.  Implementation Status
   7.  IANA Considerations
   8.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) [RFC5440]
   provides mechanisms for Path Computation Elements (PCEs) to perform
   path computations in response to requests from Path Computation
   Clients (PCCs).

   [RFC5440] outlines the message exchange procedures that PCEP Speakers
   must follow upon initial connection to establish a PCEP Peer
   relationship.  This procedure includes sending an Open message
   containing an OPEN Object, which conveys various session
   characteristics such as protocol timers.  The OPEN Object can be
   extended with TLVs to convey additional session characteristics, such
   as PCE capabilities (e.g., [RFC8408]) or specific values and ranges
   (e.g., [RFC8664] and [draft-ietf-pce-controlled-id-space]).  This
   information is exchanged only once per session and cannot be
   dynamically modified without tearing down and re-establishing the
   PCEP session, which can be operationally disruptive.

   Additionally, [RFC5440] describes a Notification message (PcNtf)
   containing a NOTIFICATION Object, which a PCEP Speaker may use to
   notify the other speaker of an event.

   This document proposes a generic mechanism that allows a PCEP Speaker
   to update previously exchanged Open Message information using a PcNtf
   message.  This approach mitigates the need to tear down the session
   to modify any exchanged information.

   Note that [draft-ietf-pce-state-sync] also proposes using PcNtf to
   relay PcOpen messages between PCEs about each PCE's connected peers.
   It is anticipated that [draft-ietf-pce-state-sync] will be defined in
   parallel, with unique object definitions, as the semantics of a PCEP
   Speaker exchanging its own information differ from exchanging
   information related to a connected peer.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Operational considerations

   todo

4.  PcNtf Message procedures

   todo2

5.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

6.  Implementation Status

   [Note to the RFC Editor - remove this section before publication, as
   well as remove the reference to RFC 7942.]

   This section records the status of known implementations of the
   protocol defined by this specification at the time of posting of this
   Internet-Draft, and is based on a proposal described in [RFC7942].
   The description of implementations in this section is intended to
   assist the IETF in its decision processes in progressing drafts to
   RFCs.  Please note that the listing of any individual implementation
   here does not imply endorsement by the IETF.  Furthermore, no effort
   has been spent to verify the information presented here that was
   supplied by IETF contributors.  This is not intended as, and must not
   be construed to be, a catalog of available implementations or their
   features.  Readers are advised to note that other implementations may
   exist.

   According to [RFC7942], "this will allow reviewers and working groups
   to assign due consideration to documents that have the benefit of
   running code, which may serve as evidence of valuable experimentation
   and feedback that have made the implemented protocols more mature.
   It is up to the individual working groups to use this information as
   they see fit".

7.  IANA Considerations

   TODO IANA

8.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   The authors would like to acknowledge Dhruv Dhody for his discussion
   and ideas related to this document.

Authors' Addresses

   Andrew Stone
   Nokia
   Email: andrew.stone@nokia.com


   Cheng Li
   Huawei
   Email: c.l@huawei.com


   Samuel Sidor
   Cisco
   Email: ssidor@cisco.com
